Applications of Stack,Queue,Linked List

Stack:

1. Redo and Undo
2. History in web browsing.
3. Balancing Parenthesis
4. Recursion
5. Forward and backward in browsing.
6. String Reversal
7. Converting infix to postfix or prefix 
8. Evaluation of a prefix or postfix expression.
9. Scratch card’s earned after Google pay transaction
10.Dec to Binary

Queue:

1. Scheduling
2. Printer
3. Youtube Buffering
4. Messaging Queue
5. Data Transfer and Data Packing
6. Keyboard input

Linked List:

1. Snake Game,Road Rash
2. Data Supply Chain
3. Music Player
4. HyperLink
5. Data Storage and Access
6. Polynomial Addition
7. Image Viewer and Music Player 

Circular Linked List

1.Any node can be a starting point. We can traverse the whole list by starting from any point. We just need to stop when the first visited node is visited again.
2.Useful for implementation of a queue. Unlike this implementation, we don’t need to maintain two pointers for front and rear if we use a circular linked list. 
We can maintain a pointer to the last inserted node and the front can always be obtained as the next of last.
3.Circular lists are useful in applications to repeatedly go around the list. For example, when multiple applications are running on a PC, it is common for the 
operating system to put the running applications on a list and then to cycle through them, giving each of them a slice of time to execute, and then making them 
wait while the CPU is given to another application. It is convenient for the operating system to use a circular list so that when it reaches the end of the list 
it can cycle around to the front of the list.
4.Circular Doubly Linked Lists are used for implementation of advanced data structures like Fibonacci Heap.

Tree:

1. AutoCorrection AutoCompletion
3. Data Storage in Hierarchy
4. State Space Tree
5. Posting questions on websites like Quora, the comments are child of questions 
6. Databases also uses tree data structures for indexing.
7. Searching and Sorting

Graph:

1. Navigation
2. Map
3. Face Recognition
4. Tagging
5. Finger Print
6. Minimum Spanning Tree
7. Shortest Path Problem


SPF Application is GPS and Network 

Minimum Spanning Tree

Applications of Graph:
I/P: Graph and O/P: Tree

Removes cycles and edges with higher cost keeps only minimum 
costing edges

Minimum connection cost
-> pipes
-> wiring
-> road construction
-> flooding or broadcasting
-> flow based problems
-> maximum connection at min cost

->Prims
->Kruskal

In Kruskal intermediate solution can be disconnected and subgraph.
In Prim intermediate solution can only be subgraph.
